# Living Lab Sensor Network JSON-LD Annotation
Semantic annotation process for the JSON collections generated from the UDG Living Lab Sensor Network
This module project is part of the Living Labs for Smart Cities use case in Guadalajara City.

## History
+ 7/27/2016:
	- First draft documentation for the sensor network data model.
+ 7/25/2016:
	- Finished vocabularies. scllv: jsonld specification to the UDG Living Lab  and scllv-meta owl specification of extended metadata).
+ 7/19/2016:
	- Creation of the scllv-meta ontology and sample documentation with the following IRI:
	  http://ontology.cybershare.utep.edu/smart-cities/scllv-meta
+ 7/15/2016:
	- Initial development version of the Smart Cities Living Lab Vocabulary (ssllv) in JSON-LD format.
+ 7/7/2016: 
	- Prototype annotation proposal for the device JSON and weekdatasets JSON generated by the Living Lab.

## Upcoming Development
+ Human readable version of the scllv JSON-LD specification.

## Results
+ Smart Cities Living Lab Vocabulary (scllv)
	- References existing vocabulary terms and adds extended meaning to some terms.
	- Context declaration for fields used on the UDG - Living Lab sensor data repository. 
		http://ontology.cybershare.utep.edu/smart-cities/scllv.jsonld
+ Smart Cities Living Lab Metadata Vocabulary (scllv-meta)
	- OWL-based ontology for custom terms (not coming from external source vocabularies).
		http://ontology.cybershare.utep.edu/smart-cities/scllv-meta
	
## Try Out at the JSON-LD Playground!
+ The playground uses the jsonld.js JSON-LD processor to output a semantically rich version of our JSON samples by linking the JSON fields to standard terms on web published vocabularies.
  
+ Copy and paste our currently annotated JSON samples to http://json-ld.org/playground/
	- Weekly Dataset Sample : https://github.com/cybershare/SCLL/blob/master/Annotated%20Samples/annotated-weekdataset-final.json
	- Device Information Sample: https://github.com/cybershare/SCLL/blob/master/Annotated%20Samples/annotated-device-final.json

+ If there are problems from the playground to load the external json-ld context file try the following:
	- Use google chrome and download the extension: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/allow-control-allow-origi/nlfbmbojpeacfghkpbjhddihlkkiljbi
	- Once located at the json-ld playground make sure to enable CORS so that the referenced jsonld context can be loaded from the json-ld.org domain.  

+ Sucessfully tested with: Google Chrome v51 with enabled CORS, Mozilla Firefox v47 and IE v11. 
	
## Participating Institutions
+ Universidad de Guadalajara (UDG)
+ University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP)

## Credits
+ Project PI (UDG): Victor M. Larios
+ Project PI (UTEP): Natalia Villanueva-Rosales
+ UDG Living Labs:
	- Leopoldo Gomez
	- Olga B. Mora
	- Emmanuel Aceves
	- Gustavo Jimenez
+ UTEP Cybershare:
	- Luis Garnica Chavira

## Contributors
+ iotdb.org
	- David Janes: Helped with a sample extension of their iot vocabulary to describe dataset terms of ssll.

## Contributing
1. Fork it!
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b my-new-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add some feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin my-new-feature`
5. Submit a pull request :D
	
## License
  GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
